What do you think?
It's thorough, specific,
solid, a terrific job.
But?
I'm surprised you don't call
for Daniels' resignation.
It wasn't in the commission's
mandate to address that.
Maybe not,
but there's enough here
to make it a reasonable conclusion.
Then the chief should draw it
or city council.
Really. It's not my judgment,
not without criminality.
You loyalist, Furillo.
Look, if I were in Daniels' shoes,
I'd probably resign, but I'm not.
He is. I'm gonna
show him the draft this morning.
You're what?
He commissioned it. I owe it to him.
-Maybe he'll do the right thing.
-(scoffs) Maybe.
I love you.
See you at the council?
I love you, Frank.
-(siren wailing)
-(police radio chatter)
(indistinct conversations)
-What happened?
-Patrolman Bauer took off
night shift sick about 3:00 a.m.
Says this kid attacked him
on the way home.
You made it, Rodriguez.
You screwed around long enough
to make it a day-shift report.
-Witnesses?
-Bauer called it in himself.
Him and his pal tried to take me out,
whacked me with some kind of pipe.
-We find it?
-The kid took off with it,
-the one I didn't pump.
-Thanks.
Come on, Bauer,
I'll drive you to the house.
Great. Just the way I want
to spend my morning.
Hey, it ain't exactly
my dream day either, Bauer.
How about we save
the whizzing and moaning?
It's open.
JABLONSKI: Item five:
squad-room security procedures.
Now, short of frisking everybody,
which is impractical,
or installing a separate
entrance with metal detectors,
which we don't have the dough to do…
-(inaudible)
-…squad-room access for civilians
is always gonna be a matter of judgment.
That means there's gonna be mistakes.
People, every one of you,
try to be a last checkpoint.
Try to be alert for bing-bongs and weirdos
in case like what happened last Thursday
with the grieving father
of Harry Garibaldi,
in case your duty sergeant
makes a wrong call.
Okay. Yeah. Item six.
Now, people,
this is not one of those paintings
that you'll find at the Modern-Art Museum.
-(laughter)
-Believe it or not, believe it or not,
this is an ordinary traffic ticket.
It was returned by the traffic court
for inability to prosecute
because of summons illegibility.
Now, the violator here
seems to have been arrested
for something that reads
"fragatahide slopstain."
-(laughter)
-And the signature on this
magnificent piece of police work
seems to read "Benji Binko."
(laughter)
Now, I don't recall
any Officer Binko in this precinct.
(laughter, jeering)
And I would appreciate
if he would step forward,
identify himself, so we could
translate these hieroglyphics.
(jeering, laughter)
(indistinct catcalling)
All right, Andy, would you be so good
as to read the original charge for us?
-What's this word here?
-(laughter)
-I don't know, Andy. You wrote it.
-Um, "Failure to heed stop sign."
Um, anybody could figure that out.
-(jeering, laughter)
-JABLONSKI: Nice going, Andy.
But from now on,
write them so others can read them, huh?
-Officer Binko.
-Be quiet.
We can't forget the fundamentals.
Okay, people, let's roll.
Let's do the job.
(foreign accent) I am businessman.
-You are stopping my business.
-Over here, camel breath.
Sergeant Jablonski,
if memory serves, you have a dog.
-Blackie.
-Yes, well,
perhaps we could talk after work
about getting Blackie a canine companion.
I don't think Blackie and me
would be interested.
Well, I'm convinced that
we could kindle that interest,
uh, once you heard my presentation.
I'll say just one word: Shar Pei.
-Shar Pei?
-Shar Pei.
It could bring
a whole new dimension to your lifestyle.
I'll look forward to talking with you.
Jeez, I can hardly wait.
(telephone ringing)
-Fazi?
-F-A-Z-I.
Correct.
Why you arrest me and not real criminals?
Because the subway is off-limits
to unlicensed vendors.
These toys are for little babies,
to make them happy,
not to be crime.
Meow. Meow. Meow.
Hello, little baby.
Babies really like this thing?
Are you kidding with me? Meow.
They're crazy nuts for them.
You have baby? Here, here, take, take.
I give. I give. Yes, here you are.
You take and I go.
Meow. Meow.
(mimics dog barking)
Fazi go?
Animal charades, Mick?
-Fazi stay.
-(American accent) Animal charades?
Why don't you mind your own business,
-you freaking creep?
-(growling)
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
-Armed robbery in progress.
-(sirens whooping)
See Surplus Store,
corner of People's Drive and 124th Street.
(theme music playing)
Captain. I'll be right there.
Captain, we got an officer involved.
-Night-shift guy, Dave Bauer.
-Was it a good shooting?
I'm gonna write it up now.
The victim was on
a scholarship to Amherst.
He was back in the city
to present a DuBois Merit Award.
That was his school principal.
He wants a meeting with you.
Any time after the city-council hearing.
Stan, Chief Daniels' office.
Back in an hour.
-Right, Captain.
-We buy community heat on this
even if it was a righteous shoot.
The kid sounds like Horatio Alger.
What was Horatio doing on that street
at 4:00 in the morning?
What was Dave Bauer doing there?
(telephone ringing)
-(clears throat) Yeah?
-Lieutenant, I know you're not
-a hands-on kind of personnel officer.
-You got that right.
Yeah, but we've been through
seven khakis in the last two weeks.
Well, maybe eight's the magic number.
Lieutenant, the people that
we're getting from this guy Pearson
in department personnel
just ain't qualified.
I'm not sure this Miss Dolan
even took the exam.
-You check her records?
-Yes.
It says that she took the exam,
but the day after that incident
with Garibaldi's father,
um, she was waffling.
You want to know what I think?
Only if I don't have to do
anything about it.
I believe that job opportunities
are being offered
in return for certain favors.
-Favors?
-Like of a sexual nature.
(clears throat) So, uh, you figure
Pearson's turning these ladies over
before he turns them out?
It's certainly not a subject
that I want to brooch with the man,
-but that's my guess, correct?
-(clears throat) Well, uh,
yeah, I guess maybe this is
the kind of thing I should look into.
I wish you would.
Tell Miss Dolan
I'd like to see her in the lineup.
-I appreciate it.
-Hey, I'm the personnel officer.
Yeah, whatever you wear will be great.
Hey, Lynnetta. Hey, it's J.D. LaRue.
Listen, this is a cop hangout
we're going to,
so don't break out the "A" threads,
and don't eat lunch.
Dinner's being prepared
by Cordon Bleu LaRue.
Hey, you guys mind?
Okay, baby. Yeah. See you later.
-Me too.
-All right, go ahead.
Okay, so I'm out of the car.
I'm fighting with this kid.
Whack. He hits me right here
with a steel pipe.
And I'm down. I got him by the sweatshirt.
I'm holding on.
I'm trying to pull out my piece.
Now, this other kid comes out of nowhere.
Who, he also is trying
to kick hell out of me.
I get off a shot.
The other kid screams.
The first kid lets go.
He turns to the other kid who's hit,
which I also tried
to plant the first kid, too.
I took two shots at him, but he got away.
-Can you describe the assailant who ran?
-(sighs)
Yeah, he's 5'9",
gray sweatshirt, green pants.
Did you see his face?
No, it was a no-write-up brand stalking.
Hey, why don't you save the attitude, huh?
I see his face, I'm gonna
give you his face first, aren't I?
Hey, listen, Bauer, for openers,
your story's a joke.
If you stopped at the convenience
at 133 and Dekker,
-how come you parked at 131?
-There was no closer spots.
Oh, well, congratulations
for being the first cop in history
not to double-park.
Excuse me. Officer Bauer?
I'm I.A.D. Officer Shipman.
Join the inquisition.
I'm here to get your statement
about this morning's incident.
-I just gave it to these guys.
-Separate investigations, Officer.
I'm afraid you'll have
to give it to me, too.
Could I talk to you a sec, Officer Bauer?
What's the problem?
Listen, Bauer,
your giving I.A.D. your statement
is gonna give us just enough time
to go to the convenience
and find out you're not
on the night camera.
Now, maybe you had business on 131st.
Maybe you got a good reason for
not wanting to talk about it.
Maybe it was a righteous shoot.
-I'm telling you it was.
-I'm telling you,
I don't care how good
your reasons are for lying,
if you don't want to be
treated like a perp
instead of another cop,
by the time we get back here,
you better start giving straight answers.
Come on. He's all yours.
I'm looking through
your AP file, Miss Dolan,
and, well, I find the grade,
but no copy of a test.
Well, Mr. Pearson gave me
the examination orally.
I see.
And where did this oral exam take place?
-In a hot tub.
-Pearson's… (clears throat) got a hot tub?
No, we went to the Bubble
Your Pleasure Spa.
It's pretty clear what happened, isn't it?
Do you like playing cat and mouse,
making me feel dirty?
Hey, hey. Come on. Here.
Here. Go on. Give it a blow.
I get them dry-cleaned.
Look, uh... (clears throat)
I'm not making any
moral judgments here, Miss Dolan,
-but I got to get the facts.
-All right.
So after the exam, then what? (scoffs)
Dance with no steps?
I'm afraid so.
And, uh, next morning,
what, you wake up
and, bing, you're qualified.
The next morning?
Try five minutes.
Five minutes?
(chuckles) Like a kid with candy.
What is that supposed to mean?
I can't take this.
Hey, hey, take it easy, Miss Dolan.
I'm not qualified.
I shouldn't have this job.
But I don't need to take
any pinch and tickle.
Hey, I'm just making
a little joke here, alright?
I mean, we know you ain't
no Mary freaking Poppins here, you know?
(laughs)
That is it. I quit.
Hey, hey. Look, don't get upset.
Listen, I'm just fooling around
with you, all right?
Just having a good time.
(imitating Rambo) I slept in mud.
I ate water bugs.
They kill my woman,
but I didn't care!
Because I had a mission
to bring the prisoners back home!
And you!
You didn't even write your congressman!
Because people don't care
about American servicemen
still missing in action!
And right there, in the kitchen,
Americans treated no better
than a water buffalo!
Who you calling a buffalo?
Why don't you be quiet
and let these folks eat in peace?
Peace?
Americans in tiger cages
eating fish heads.
-Sisco.
-Who you talking to?
You, Alan Branford, cut the crapola.
-You don't understand.
-No, you don't understand.
Now, the show's over. Come on.
Air-surveillance photos
of a prison in Laos
shows prisoners sitting cross-legged.
Cross-legged! Not squatting like Asians.
You know what that means?
Hey, look, pal, I was there.
Don't be fooling
with that crap, all right?
Hey, I ain't fooling.
I just delivered a birthday greeting.
I'm an actor. I'm allowed to improvise
around my subject--
Al, Al, what is this?
That's plastic, a simulated M-16.
-Ya da da da da da--
-What are you--
All right, that's it, pal.
-You're going in.
-Joe, think for just a second.
You want to deal with this guy
for the next four hours? Think about it.
-You want me to bust this guy?
-I want him out!
-Come on.
-You never let me win.
LUCY: Out. Out.
You know, Frank,
when people were telling me
one of my rising young lieutenants
was a drunk,
unfit to serve, an embarrassment,
it wasn't easy to support you.
It took something
you obviously haven't got.
Loyalty, a sense of gratitude.
I said we'd follow the evidence
wherever it led, Chief.
What evidence? Where?
There isn't a shred in here
to incriminate me.
You use an amalgam
of insinuation and innuendo
to build your shrewd little conclusion.
I didn't come here to debate the findings.
Then what?
I felt you had a right to see this
before it went to the council.
Why? So I'd have time to fall on my sword?
So you could walk in there
with my badge in your pocket?
Frank, whatever last
flickering loyalty brought you here
I'd like to appeal to now.
I'd like you to tear out that last section
and leave it in my wastebasket.
The indictments of Keenan's bunch
and the rest fine, first-rate job.
But let's throw out
this last bunch of pontification.
I won't do that, Chief.
Then take your best shot, friend.
But it won't be the last one fired.
Lieutenant Norman Buntz, Mr. Pearson.
Personnel officer, Hill Street.
Phones out?
No, the phone ain't out,
and don't crack wise with me, Pearson.
What's our problem?
Our problem is that
you've been sending us morons
to be our khaki officers,
which me and my duty sergeant
couldn't figure out
until Miss Dolan told us a little story
about how she got to be qualified
after you gave her a little oral exam
down at the Bubble
Your Pleasure Hot Tub Salon.
-That little mutt.
-You're in it up to your lips, Pearson.
-You could be going away.
-No.
No? Falsification of records,
solicitation to commit lewd
and immoral acts.
-Oh, God.
-"Oh, God" is correct there, Pearson.
You better get your mind right.
What do you need?
I need khakis that can write
their own names
and preferably some other people's.
-You got it.
-And starting today.
Miss Dolan, uh, she left us.
-I'll have someone there at 2:00.
-All right.
Lieutenant, all this stuff
about going to jail?
Just do your job, all right?
Would you want to help me
with my screening procedure?
I'm just thinking, you know,
if you had a hands-on interview...
-What are you suggesting here?
-Oh,
I just want to be able
to satisfy your exact needs.
Our exact needs are
we don't need any more airheads.
Tell you what,
I'll send the candidate up there.
She'll understand that it's subject
to your interview approval.
Now, all things being equal, Lieutenant,
give me a sense in terms
of physical appearance.
-What do you mean?
-Lieutenant, loosen up.
What do you want to see in a woman?
I'll tell you one thing...
I think this country's
too hung up on thinness.
Just look at the transcript, Lieutenant.
It's the record of a life.
We're all aware of Rodney
Yarborough's achievements, Mr. Stevenson.
These would have only been the beginning.
Do you think this is making
Mr. Yarborough feel any better?
Oh.
I think it's a little late for you people
to start worrying about
what hurts James Yarborough.
I'm sorry for your loss, Mr. Yarborough.
The fact is our officer
said he was attacked
-by your son and another boy.
-Another boy? Another nigger?
-Oh, come on, Mr. Stevenson!
-An honor student!
My first full scholarship
to an ivy league college and you say
-he's out committing a robbery.
-He was on that street.
Your officer said there were two boys?
-That's correct.
-Henry?
Captain Furillo, this is Mr. Yarborough.
I'm sorry for your loss, sir.
-Thank you, Captain.
-And Mr. Stevenson, Rodney's principal.
Your officer took a precious asset
from our community, Captain.
The community's gonna demand justice.
We all want that, Mr. Stevenson.
Let's just leave things for now.
Let's let the police
do their investigation.
Justice better come quickly.
Captain, we checked the night film
at that convenience store
Bauer said he went to.
He's not on it.
-Could he have mistaken the store?
-Uh-uh.
Only one open around there
that time of night, Captain.
Captain, I want your man
on a desk till further notice.
The community is reacting
very strongly to this shooting.
I wish we could give you
early disposition.
Officer Bauer's not being
very forthcoming.
Captain, thank God.
They're killing me.
I mean, I'm raw meat
for that shoofly from I.A.D.
Your statement doesn't check out.
We can't place you
at that convenience store.
Listen to me, Captain.
I, uh, I got personal problems.
I got no home since
the wife kicked me out.
I can't sleep when I get off.
I have to drive around to unwind.
I usually stop in that place for smokes.
Maybe I didn't go in there last night.
I mean, I'm exhausted. I just got beat up.
Maybe I'm confused.
The point is it was a good shoot.
You listen to me, Bauer,
the kid you shot wasn't some
street punk with a sheet.
He was in college.
He'd never had a day's worth of trouble.
I'm telling you,
him and the other kid took me off.
And I'm prepared to believe that,
but I want to know how it went down now.
Otherwise, get a lawyer.
I already told it
pretty much the way it was,
-except there was a girl there.
-I don't want to extract this
-piece by piece.
-Alright. Alright.
I was with a hooker.
-You know her name?
-(sighs)
Jonelle.
Pick her up.
See if she corroborates Bauer's statement.
-You got it, Captain.
-IRWIN: Frank, we gotta get going.
-You have the indictments?
-Signed and sealed.
-Nervous? Terrified?
-No. It's too late for that now.
(siren wailing)
(dispatcher talking)
I came here to get
my sciatic nerve massaged,
and some fruitcake almost
kills me with a bow and arrow.
-If it's that Branford jerk again, Luce...
-Okay.
-Is this guy all right?
-Angina.
We called his cardiologist.
They say it's over.
They say we lost.
But it'll never be over
till we get you back to America
free.
Put that bow and arrow down, Branford.
We gotta get them outta here.
Come on. Come on. Get down.
Fun's over now.
I have a mission to accomplish.
You can't stop me, only delay me.
-Right.
-Yeah, we'll see about that.
You have the right to remain silent.
-You're looking awful good today.
-Shut up, Branford.
-Hey, you better listen to me now.
-Hey, what's the problem?
They just got rubber tips
on the end of the arrows.
You should've told
that to the guy outside.
He doesn't have a rubber-tipped chest,
and those are real angina pains.
You have the right to remain silent.
If you give up the right to remain silent,
-anything you say can and will--
-Back to business for everybody.
(knocks)
Uh, Mr. Burhan?
Lieutenant Hunter, you'll have
to forgive me. I'm late for a plane.
Oh, well, could I just have
30 seconds, sir?
I need a quick pep talk.
What's the problem?
Well, I have approached a number
of my colleagues and friends,
and I am certain that
I've been close to some sales.
Not a good closer, eh?
Well, I was hoping that you
could rev me up, you know?
When I left after our first meeting,
I was going full throttle.
Your situation cries out
for a sales-support-group
seminar, Lieutenant.
Enroll in my section. It's $100.
Did you bring a checkbook?
Well, no, I didn't think
there'd be any further costs.
Lieutenant, you have an investment
that you must protect.
You came wishing to be revved up.
The support group will rev you up. $100.
Well, let me see if I got any money.
Discount for cash.
Oh. Uh, all I have is $40--
Accepted. I trust you for the rest.
When does this support group meet?
I will inform you by registered mail.
-Magnus Burhan?
-Who wants to know?
Detective John Scanlon, Bunko Squad.
-I have a warrant for your arrest.
-Mr. Burhan isn't here.
That's Burhan.
Lieutenant Hunter, Hill Street Precinct.
What are the charges?
The guy's running Ponzi
schemes in five states.
Oh, Judas.
FRANK: "Conclusion eight:
the commission today files indictments
against 39 police officers
from four precincts and Central Division.
Obviously, this number of indictments
and the organized nature
of the criminal activities
of Deputy Chief Keenan and his associates
raises the question of possible
department-wide corruption.
We find no evidence of systemic corruption
other than this network
established by Keenan.
While the commission finds
no evidence of criminal activity
on the part of the Chief of Police,
Fletcher Daniels,
we nevertheless observe
that Keenan was the chief's deputy
for three and a half years
and was also employed
in Daniels' mayoral campaign.
It's the opinion of the commission
that if Chief Daniels didn't know
what Deputy Chief Keenan was doing,
he should have known.
Finally, the commission
regrets the attitude
among many members of the force
who testified that
a certain amount of corruption
"goes with the territory.'"
Corruption flourishes
where an atmosphere
of tolerance for it prevails.
The appointment of
this commission by Chief Daniels,
while a positive step to clear
the air, is only a beginning.
We must not wait five years
to continue the work begun today.
-Thank you.
-Thank you, Captain.
On behalf of the entire subcommittee,
this meeting is adjourned.
(indistinct conversations)
I don't question
Captain Furillo's intentions.
I don't accuse him of personal ambition.
I do feel his conclusions
distort the evidence
in his own committee's report.
Naturally, I'm heartened
that Captain Scapizzi,
who also served on the
commission, shares my feelings.
-That's correct.
-Chief Daniels,
do you have any intention of resigning?
Absolutely not.
Given all the trumpet blasts
of righteousness
that Captain Furillo has been sounding,
I feel quite certain
if he felt I should resign,
-he'd have called for my resignation.
-Watch your back, Furillo.
DANIELS: I understand and sympathize
with the community's concern
over the loss of this young man.
In a small way,
I hope my presence here today
dramatizes that concern.
Has Officer Bauer been arrested, Chief?
The shooting of Rodney Yarborough
and the robbery,
which Hill Street Officer Bauer
alleges preceded it,
are both under investigation.
In addition,
Hill Street Officer Bauer's status
is currently under review
by Internal Affairs.
I can guarantee you
that as soon as all the facts are in,
appropriate measures will be taken.
Then an arrest is imminent?
I'll have to consult with Captain Furillo
on that question.
As you know, the captain's been
rather busy on other fronts today.
Miss Davenport, I got a customer for you.
-Alan Branford, room B.
-Thank you, Sergeant.
En garde.
-I'll call you from court.
-Don't count on dinner.
-Long lunch, Captain?
-My office?
Has there been any progress
in the Yarborough shooting?
I won't discuss that here.
You have a rather selective concern
for discretion, Captain.
All right, Jonelle, you can clear me.
Just tell the truth about those kids.
Is she a witness
in the Yarborough shooting?
-Bauer's got a supporting witness?
-Disappointed?
I want to hear her interrogation.
That's not appropriate.
I want to hear her interrogation, Captain.
A rogue cop and a hooker.
This just gets better and better.
I ain't saying nothing
until I know what you people want.
I've been caught in these switches before.
Ain't nobody trying
to catch you in a switch, Jonelle.
Mm-hmm. That's what
they said the last time,
and it cost me six months
in Margaret Cooper.
-Has she made a statement?
-We just got started, Chief.
-Who's he?
-I'm Chief of Police Daniels.
You have nothing to fear.
Just tell us exactly what happened
on that street this morning.
And don't feel you have
to protect a policeman.
You expect me to believe that?
Miss Robinson,
has anyone in this precinct,
anyone, including a senior officer,
tried to get you to protect Officer Bauer?
I don't know what they want.
I told them that when they picked me up.
-Just tell me what you need.
-FRANK: The truth.
We just want the truth.
And nothing will happen?
All right.
I was copping up at the Cubans on 137th,
and Bauer comes in and scores some coke.
An addict to boot.
How many of those
you got patrolling the Hill?
Go on, Jonelle.
So Bauer see me,
and he tells me
I'm gonna give him a freebie.
Maybe I shouldn't say no more.
Maybe I need a lawyer with me.
You have complete immunity. Go on.
So we get in the car,
and we go down to 131.
And I did the man, okay?
My side of the door was busted,
so he had to get out of the car
to let me out.
-And that's when they jumped him.
-Who jumped him?
Them two boys. They must have followed us.
One of them I seen
at the Cubans all the time.
He hit Bauer upside the head
with a tire iron,
and Bauer started fighting with him,
and then the other one jumped in,
and then Bauer shoots.
And that's all I saw.
And that's when I ran like hell.
So Bauer shot as he was being attacked.
That's right,
and that's the way it went down.
They're gonna do it to me, you know that?
These damn shooflies
are gonna cost me my kid.
-How's that?
-I'm in a custody fight.
She leaves him locked in his room,
you believe that?
Six years old.
I tried calling the slut all day.
I guess the fleet's in.
You'll be able to take care of a kid?
I was gonna hire one of them
Central American illegals.
They move in, you pay them
50 bucks a week. Jonelle?
-Take her with you to the Cubans.
-Right, Captain.
Did you tell them the truth, Jonelle?
Excuse me, Chief Daniels. Dave Bauer, sir.
I'm sure Jonelle probably
didn't make me look like a saint in there,
but if she told the truth,
I should be okay.
Okay? Officer, what I heard
in that room turned my stomach.
You're a disgrace to the badge.
-Chief, don't do it.
-What?
-Don't do what, Captain?
-Tar Hill Street with one bad cop.
Let's be consistent, Furillo.
I fail to sniff out Keenan,
you're willing to go after my scalp.
-Chief?
-Stay away from me, Bauer.
I think I need some fresh air.
This whole precinct makes me sick.
You know the whereabouts
of over 2,000 American servicemen
have not been verified?!
Of course, you don't want
to think about that!
Because if you think about that,
then you've got to think about
the whole thing!
-Am I right?
-Mr. Branford?
-Mr. Branford.
(normal voice) Hey, Joyce, how you doing?
You know, it really knocks me out.
An actor's out there in the general public
trying to practice his craft.
And he tries to raise
a little social consciousness,
and everybody freaks out.
Mr. Branford...
Alan.
I'd like your consent to request
psychiatric hospitalization.
Of course.
What you like, I like,
but hospitalization
at this point in my career?
-I don't know.
-It would probably prevent
the filing of criminal charges.
Joyce.
I'm a complicated guy.
That's fair.
You know what they do
to complicated people
in the puzzle house?
They try to smooth us all out.
I do not want to lose who I am.
Who are you?
I don't know.
That's what I love about myself.
I only need one thing.
-What?
-A three-piece suit.
My cleaners is right around the corner.
(sighs) I'll do what I can.
(horn honks)
-J.D., I was just thinking that maybe--
-Here it comes.
-What?
-Another do and don't
about Lynnetta at dinner tonight.
I was just gonna say
that Lynnetta might probably be
a little nervous, you know?
It's not
that she doesn't have a sense of humor.
Man, this woman has got
her hooks in you, Neal.
Hey, man, check out Jonelle.
Oh, well, now we know
what she was doing inside.
Mm-hmm.
He's in there, on the sofa.
Sweatshirt, green pants?
Mm-hmm. Derrick. I remember his name now.
You stay right here.
-Police! Freeze it!
-(chatter)
Hey, hey, hey, I'm innocent, man.
Oh, come on. Move, move.
Get your butt outta here.
-You're busted, Derrick.
-So I'm busted.
Come on, bro. Let's go.
You have the right to remain silent.
If you give up the right
to remain silent--
Homeboy, you ain't got
to explain nothing to me.
-My brother dead.
-Who's your brother?
Rodney Yarborough, college hero.
-Uh-huh.
-Rodney dead, man.
I don't care what you do to me.
Mr. Branford, I have the feeling
that more was involved here
than simply an actor plying his trade.
Your Honor, I commit to the parts I play,
and sometimes I over-commit to them.
And in my attempt to force
public awareness,
I have overstepped
the boundaries of my craft.
JUDGE: You're saying that
if I release you,
these exhibitions
of guerrilla theater will cease?
Yes, Your Honor.
I have just been informed by my employer
that I have been terminated,
so I'm going back into
repertory theater, downtown,
O'Neill.
No automatic weapons involved.
Seems pretty rational to me.
Your Honor,
you just saw a man acting sane.
Believe me, Mr. Branford
needs years of psychotherapy.
How about jail, Your Honor?
I hate to put him
in Michigan Avenue, Irwin.
He'll be eaten alive.
Do you have a criminal complainant?
No, Your Honor.
(sighs)
Step back.
Mr. Branford,
I'm gonna release you
on your own recognizance
in return for a hearing in two weeks.
Keep your nose clean,
and I'll consider dropping
criminal charges at that time.
-Thank you, Your Honor.
-(gavel bangs)
-Bailiff, next case.
-I'd like to talk to you.
You were beautiful in there.
I'm not sure the judge did
what's best for you.
I want to take you out to dinner.
-I know a nice little Andalusian--
-Don't you understand?
The judge freed you
against my recommendation.
I think you need help.
I'm sure you do.
Don't you ever shout at me again.
No.
Don't ever do that.
Captain, level with me.
Where do I stand now?
Jonelle Robinson's statement
essentially corroborates yours.
LaRue and Washington are out
trying to find the other assailant.
I think you're probably okay
as to the incident itself.
My career's still finished,
though, am I right?
She told us some other things, too.
(sighs)
I know you probably
don't want to hear this,
but I used to be a pretty good cop.
You're exhausted.
Why don't you get some sleep?
-We'll talk tomorrow.
-I got to square my life away.
Captain, I want to resign.
I think there's sense in that.
If I quit, I might be able
to still save my pension.
I promise, I'll try to clean up.
(knock on door)
Oh, God.
I.A.D.: I'd like to speak with
Officer Bauer again, Captain.
Chief, the shoot was good.
What are you doing to me here?
This isn't about the shoot.
I'd like you to submit
to a physical examination.
Chief, I'm out on my feet.
Officer Bauer, you may
want to consult an attorney.
You have that right, Officer.
On the other hand, you may
just want to get it over with.
I just want to get myself
a security job someplace.
I just want a good enough jacket
that can support myself.
Are you willing to submit
to a physical examination, Officer Bauer?
You bastards.
You want to see?
Huh?
Right there. That's where I hit.
And sometimes there.
I put eight good years in.
Out of how many on the force?
I.A.D.: Officer Bauer,
consider yourself under suspension.
So, (clears throat) Celeste Patterson.
That's right.
Uh, word processing,
uh, bilingual typing, (chuckles)
even CPR.
Well, you sound like
a regular Wonder Woman.
Well, I consider myself qualified.
So, did Mr. Pearson say
anything special about the interview?
Just that you'd be the final judge
if I got the job.
Uh-huh.
And, uh...
Did he give you any,
uh, hints in that area, Miss Patterson?
You mean the hint
where either you and I get it on,
or I don't get the job?
Bingo.
I'm gonna tell you the same thing
I told that scum bucket Pearson.
There's me and my six-year-old son.
Now, I need this job,
and thanks to you two, I got it.
Got it? Because if I don't,
I'm gonna go to the mayor,
and I'm gonna go to the chief of police,
and I'm gonna go to the state's attorney,
and then I'm gonna go see my congressman.
And I'm gonna raise such a stink
about sexual harassment
that you're gonna wish that you were dead.
-I'll be right back.
-Yeah, all right.
-Hey, whoa, whoa!
-You need me for any more?
No, we're gonna need you
for a witness statement, Jonelle.
It'll just be a little while.
Why don't we go roller skating afterward?
-We know you're lying.
-Don't say that!
Your brother died while you
were doing a felony, Derrick.
-We'd like to charge you with murder.
-I told Rodney not to come out with me.
I moved out three years ago
so that he wouldn't get hooked.
So don't say I killed him, man!
Not my own brother!
-(shouting)
-No, man!
Peevey's not back from arraignment yet.
Put him in holding and let him cool out.
He wasn't there to rob.
He wasn't there to get high, man.
He just wanted to protect me!
He just wanted to hang with me, man!
Oh, uh, Miss Patterson, how'd it go?
-Uh, with Lieutenant Buntz?
-Yeah.
Uh, do you like your khakis in for work
-a few minutes before shift, Sergeant?
-(chuckles)
A few minutes beforehand would be great.
See you at 0650.
0650, huh?
Well.
Lieutenant, Miss Patterson
looks like a keeper, huh?
The interview went good?
(clears throat) Very good.
Exceptionally well qualified.
I appreciate your stepping in.
Look, Sergeant, don't ever involve me
in another personnel question, all right?
The entire area is a quagmire.
Excuse me, I'd like to speak
to Lieutenant Goldblume, please.
-Mr. Yarborough.
-Lieutenant, Lieutenant.
There is a way that my son Rodney
might have been involved in that incident.
-Mr. Yarborough--
-Not robbing that officer
but perhaps protecting someone else.
Mr. Yarborough, we've arrested Derrick.
(sighs)
(siren wailing)
-What's going on, Corrigan?
-Some guy with a bow and arrow.
He scared the hell out of the employees.
-Now he's just racing around.
-(Branford yelling)
-There it is again.
-Is there anybody left inside?
Yeah, an armed guard.
He just came on duty,
and nobody's seen him since.
-I called for an EA Team.
-(yelling indistinctly)
-What's he saying?
-I can't make it out.
We're gonna take this one, okay?
I love America!
It's Branford.
(gunshots)
I got him! I got the bastard!
Man down! Call the medic!
Hey, police.
It's okay. Let me take this.
Call an ambulance.
-It's real, isn't it?
-It sure is.
Hey, Luce.
Look what else is real.
Call an ambulance.
At least,
you weren't a party
to Burhan's deceptions, were you?
Oh, these are good.
My cute little fella.
Give me a kiss.
-(yapping)
-(doorbell rings)
Stay right there. You hear me? Stay there.
Stay there. I'll be right back.
(ringing continues)
(British accent) How do you do?
I'm Prunella Ashton-Wilkes.
-Howard Hunter.
-I hope you don't think I'm soliciting.
-No, I--
-Good.
Do you own, perchance, a Shar Pei?
-Well, I might.
-Now, let me assure you,
there is no need to be evasive.
My only concern
is the animal's well-being.
Well, he's fine.
He's just... oh.
I wasn't attempting to be evasive.
It's just that I have been told
that this dog may not, in fact,
be a purebred Shar Pei.
-Well, just look at him.
-(growling)
-(laughs)
-Of course he's a Shar Pei.
Oh, and how fortunate that he's here
and not in the hands
of that scoundrel Burhan.
-You know Burhan?
-Oh, yes.
It was we of the Animal Friendship League
who had the Bunko Squad sort him out.
And, of course, in my opinion,
any punishment short of
thumbscrews and gibbet
-would be insufficient for the man.
-(chuckles)
Well, I tend to share your sentiments.
But now my primary concern
is for this doggy.
Do you intend to keep him,
or was your purchase inspired
by Burhan's franchise scheme?
Oh, no, no, no. I was interested
in a companion animal.
I am definitely gonna keep him.
Oh, good.
Guns!
-May I have a look?
-Oh, of course.
Splendid set.
Richard Constable.
-May I?
-Of course.
Ooh!
You know, my grandfather killed
the seventh Earl of Lochmere
with one of these.
-He did?
-Oh, yes.
Put a ball right through his eye.
The Lochmere's accused my family
of selling cardboard boots
in the Crimean War.
Tried to blame
the trench-foot plague on us.
We killed the whole lot of them.
-In duels, of course.
-(chuckles)
Oh, dear. (laughs)
I am banging on. Sorry.
It's just that weapons arouse
an absolute passion in me.
Well, I think I know what you mean.
Do you?
Are you military?
Well, yes, I have been.
I'm a lieutenant in command
of an emergency action team
for the police.
How stirring.
Well, uh...
I'm going to give you my card.
I run a dog obedience school.
Well, then I could bring my puppy?
Oh, yes, do.
That would please me very much.
(exhales)
Ai! Hot, hot, hot, hot!
Hot, hot, hot, hot! Ai!
There we are, Pizza LaRue.
-Looking good, baby.
-What do you think of those shrimp
-I wrapped with anchovies and bean dip?
-Neal never told me
-you were the master chef.
-Well, you know, it's just a hobby.
Mrs. Calizzi lets me work
out on special occasions.
Ah, ah, ah! Huh, huh? I'm the host here.
Okay, okay, I guess you can take
the girl out of the waitress,
but you can't take
the waitress out of the girl.
(laughs)
Mm.
-You don't drink, J.D.?
-Not socially.
Uh, hey, here's to whatever
the two of you got
and plenty more of it, huh?
Mm. Hear that, Neal?
Mm-hmm. I hear, baby.
Hey, you guys want
a couple of bucks for a room?
Come on. Eat first, huh?
-J.D., phone.
-Yo.
-Excuse me.
-Mm.
Here, you want to cut that for a minute?
Yeah.
What?
Oh, man. When?
Captain know?
Yeah, all right. All right.
NEAL: What's happening, baby?
Bauer ate his gun.
-Mrs. Bauer?
-Yes.
I'm Captain Furillo, Hill Street Precinct.
Oh, uh, you know, Dave isn't here.
-He doesn't live here.
-I know that, Mrs. Bauer.
I came here to tell you
that earlier this evening...
Dave took his own life.
I'm sorry.
Um, we were separated,
but I'm still his wife,
so I still get his benefits, don't I?
I mean, like, 'cause he killed himself
doesn't cancel anything, does it?
-That doesn't cancel anything.
-(sighing) Oh.
Well...
thank you for coming by, Captain.
I'll never forgive Daniels
for what he did with Dave Bauer.
As bad a cop as Bauer was,
any human being in that room
could see he was fighting for his life.
All Daniels could see
was a way to get at me.
You would have let Bauer retire.
Any other day, any other precinct,
so would Daniels.
Instead, when he handed me
Bauer's badge, he was loving it.
I know this is the last thing
you want to hear right now, Frank,
but I think you were a little naive today.
I was.
And I won't be again.
(theme music playing)